All right, welcome back lesson 1.0.1 idea versus execution
quick note you might see that my
Camera is like might be a different size. I don't know there there might be
production inconsistencies throughout this course
Admittedly, I'm not an expert on production quality
But I am an expert on coming up with great ideas for apps. So let's talk about
that
idea verse execution is as classic and old a debate as chicken versus egg when
it comes to business
So what matters more?
My non-answer but the honest truth of it is that they matter equally. They're
honestly just different things
Your idea will determine the outcome curve of your applied execution
Whereas your execution will determine where you land on that curve
Execution is the input the idea is the structure of the equation itself
For those of you that aren't familiar with the term curve curve essentially
just means equation. It just means like what is the
sort of
Possible set of outcomes look like based on your amount of input
Okay, so good idea you will get more
outcome per unit of input or how well you execute relative to a bad idea
This should be pretty self-evident
But as usual there are virtually infinite shapes of this curve
It's not so one-dimensional
So you can work on ideas that are exponential
Social apps often take this form factor if you execute really well, you see
this like incredible
exponential outcome when you have higher attention high k factor, but if you
don't execute well
The outcome is most likely to be low
The thing that's often difficult here is it's pretty difficult to
See the difference between this curve right here for exponential and a bad idea
so you might think that you're in the early stages of
What will be exponential
Right so yet at four units of execution we see about the same sort of outcome
output
But you don't know if you're close to take off exponential growth or if you're
dead on arrival
um
in my experience
Man, it really depends but in my experience I
Try to target fast growth or at the very minimum these sort of good idea lin
early linearly tracking up
um as you become more skilled as an entrepreneur builder
just
Businessperson as a whole you'll be able to more easily recognize the
difference between exponential and bad
um
And so you'll be able to kind of work on products with a longer time horizon
and uh
larger
feedback loops
And so as you see here as with the most maximums in business, this is still an
oversimplification
Because it's just like your execution is so multi-dimensional
There's so many factors that go into it the amount of resources that you have
to play
uh, what your time horizon looks like
Which I think actually brings us to here
In coming up with the best possible idea. These are questions that are
extremely important to have very clear answers to
What is your desired outcome?
Do you care more about the problem that you are solving or the reward that you
get for solving it
a good litmus test here is
You know, if you worked on the problem for 10 years
And you never made much money from it. Maybe just enough to last would you be
happy?
Uh on the other hand
Like instead of doing that would you prefer to ignore that problem and just
take a million dollars right now?
If your answer is the latter you probably care a little bit more about the
reward that you get for solving it
It doesn't mean that you don't work on problems that you don't still care about
But just that
You know, maybe you do care about making a lot of money and that's like there's
no
There's no harm in that
The harm is when you know, you you may you sacrifice
Uh and take immoral action for the pursuit of it, right, but in and of itself
Wanting to make money is not a bad thing
What's your timeline?
Do you need to make the money in the next three months or can you work on it
for a year?
Two years before you make any cash
When I first got started off my timeline was zero dude like I needed to make
money as quickly as possible
I'd like two thousand dollars in my bank account, but all of that into riz gpt
My brother was giving me loans for groceries
There there was no runway
My entire goal with riz gpt
My entire goal was to make
$50,000 over the course of 12 months
Just so that I could continue to pay living expenses so that I could keep being
an entrepreneur
Uh actually have this like written down
Um, and there's I have a tweet about it on my uh twitter, uh, so
Anyways
What are your resources and constraints now similar to timeline? It's like do
you have a lot of capital to invest?
um
That might be uh
One of your resources your constraint might be that you only have three hours a
day free
Maybe you still have to work a full-time job. Maybe you have a family. Maybe
you're a student
Uh, so these are very very important problems to identify because these will
impact your
Problem identification or you want to consider these things ahead of time
If you want to build something that is technically very very very difficult
Um, then you're going to want more resources with regards to engineering
capabilities
Either you or a co-founder or whomever need to be very skilled
um, you know if if your resource is
Uh, you know, you have a lot of money. Maybe you can pursue problems that
generally require significantly more capital to to get going
And have a longer development timeline
Um
So yeah identify your resources and constraints and we'll touch on kind of
these specific things in a sec
And then additionally you want to consider what the curve looks like right
based on timeline
You might you might pursue different sort of outcome curves. Okay, so so let's
get tangible here
Riz GPT and umax grew fast but flatlined the goal with both of those products
was how do I start making money as quickly as possible because
I don't have cash to continue putting in or even cash to continue paying for my
living expenses
And so as a result, I identified problems that I thought I could solve very
easily
Both with regards to the amount of capital invested and the amount of
engineering difficulty
Riz GPT was a significantly easier engineering product than umax was
So as my capabilities as an engineer increased
I'd like to think that I was like one of the first vibe coders
Because ai actually wrote the vast majority of the code for both riz GPT and u
max
But as my technical abilities increased so did the technical complexity of the
products that I worked on
Now after umax had kind of blew up. It was doing really well
Zach came to me and he was like I want to build an app with you
and
He sent me a list of ideas
And so at this point in time I knew that I was going to make over a million
dollars in profit from my products
And so when he sent a list of ideas
Also, this should say plug sorry about that
But Zach sent me a list of ideas and I said to him I was like listen
I want to work on something that has more upside otherwise. It's not going to
be worth my time at all
And
So I went through his list of ideas and there were a number that were more
similar to Riz GPT and umax in total possible outcome
But I saw a i calorie tracker was included and I said I want to work on this
Or this is what we should work on together
I just want you to know that we're probably not going to see the same takeoff
As umax umax hit over $700,000 in monthly revenue within two months
Now I always kind of knew that that was possible given the state of that niche
and the virality of the product
With calai we were going against an incumbent. We were working with a
relatively rudimentary technology
We it required more capital
More engineering resources and more overall effort to get it to grow
But it had much higher upside because if we could get to the point of really
competing with my fitness pal
They were making I think $20
$20 million a month at the time and I think that they still are
I knew that it was a bigger market as a whole right a product that more people
are willing to pay for
um calorie tracking is just objectively bigger than like facial analysis looks
maxing
It might not be forever. Who knows but at the time that was the case
Um, and so these projects went exactly as I expected but with other projects I
miscalculated
A story I have not told too much was the college marketplace app that I built
before riz gpt
This was a grave and major miscalculation
Um, Alex liamon, um, I co-founder and I and then evan jay as well joined later
as a co-founder
Identify the problem on college campuses of the fact that students
Um, we're using group me do buy and sell used clothing
Now there were a number of I think false premises on which we operated
But not the least of which was that we were trying to build a local social
marketplace
This is one of the most common pitfalls of new app developers
Which is I identify this problem in my local community. So I will solve it for
my local community
But it's extremely hard so hard because not only is it social, but you're also
uh constrained by geography
So you have to create pervasive, um, sort of use
within individual bubbles
And then across bubbles as well. So so when you scale up at different schools
in this case for for our college marketplace
We had to go figure out how to solve the cold start problem again and again
Now there are benefits to this if you solve it, you know, you've got a strong
moat
But we didn't realize how difficult it would be so we put over a year into the
project
We launched at Tulane and went reasonably well
Then we went to other schools and it kind of was dead on arrival
It just didn't really grow. We didn't have the same level of connections. The
product didn't have higher attention
We did not have a high k-factor
It was solving a relatively minor problem, which I'm actually going to touch on
in the next section
Miscalculations can cause you years of your life
Seriously, it's like you pick the wrong product. You don't identify this curve.
Well, right?
We were operating within either exponential or bad idea curve
In retrospect, it was clearly bad idea. We kept telling ourselves that it was
exponential
so
um
This lesson is very theoretical about determining what idea is to work on but
it is
overwhelmingly important
I like
I actually experienced this problem a decent amount when people come to me and
they're like hey, I have this idea for an app
Can I get your thoughts?
And I want to support them and be a positive influence and be like you got it,
man
You're gonna you're gonna fucking you know, you're gonna succeed and they start
working on it
And they think that it's going to be exponential
But the whole time i'm like it's not a good idea
and
It's hard because that you know, I don't really know how to how to say it
straight
Be like dude, you should work on something else, but I try my best to do that
I'm actually really grateful for the college marketplace app that we built
Someone told that to us when everyone else is just positive like you're gonna
do it, bro. We believe in you
A successful entrepreneur harry just stetner. He was a good friend great guy
he was like
Guys, I would uh, I would fucking move on and we moved on and i'm actually like
it was one of the best decisions
Of my life because it led to everything else that occurred after the fact
building risk gpt and then all the of the future products
Um, okay, so these are all important questions to kind of ask yourself and I
think I started touching to this but
Uh, as you come up with the idea, uh, you start brainstorming you got to ask
yourself like what's what is the execution going to tangibly look like here?
So similar to the resources and constraints in terms of you know, the tangible
resources
Time money whatever it may be
Um, you need to look at the subset of skills that are required. Right. What
does your team have? What do you have and what does the product require?
Okay, so for social apps
Um, as I gave the example of the college marketplace app I built called holly
Uh, to be honest, Alex evan and I we were all very very good at distribution
As has become evident with the products that we've built since
Specifically social media distribution, but what we weren't very good at was,
uh, design and development
I actually kind of forgot this but I have this stuff written out here
Um
So so we weren't very good at design development, which are extremely important
for social apps
You might think that social apps are distribution, uh, heavy, but that's
actually not the case
Uh, a properly built social app will have high k-factor and higher attention
Which are design and development challenges rather than distribution if you
build the social app, right?
Uh, and you advertise it correctly. It'll kind of continue to grow on its own
Now emerging markets are largely just design and distribution heavy. So this
was umax and riz gpt
Um
The reason that they're not development heavy is because I mean it's a new you
're building a new product
Sure, you need to get it to work
And sometimes it will be development heavy if it's like leveraging a very very
new technology
It's technically sophisticated but more often than not in this consumer domain
It's design heavy
Not in that you need amazing ui but you need great ux, right?
If it's an emerging market if it's a new product where there does not exist
Exist precedent on how to build it and what it should look like
You have to kind of pioneer that on your own. So this was once again riz gpt
and umax
We we pioneered the the ux
Um, there was a little bit of precedent that we borrowed on but it was more
design heavy
ux specifically and then distribution should be obvious for emerging sectors
Um specifically for like utility apps is what i'm referring to with like
emergency and legacy social being its own
utility meaning single player
um
Distribution heavy because you know you're producing a product that nobody
really knows about so you're gonna have to figure out how to convince people
Um, why they should download it first you need to figure out how to put it in
front of their face
Make it interesting enough for people to engage with on social media or other
platforms
And then second you have to figure out how to convert them to actually download
and pet
Now legacy sectors. This would be an example of calai
Um calai was a mix between legacy and emerging so like the market itself of cal
orie tracking was legacy
But then the ai component was emerging so it was new
um
But if you're competing with incumbents, it's often development or engineering
heavy
Because you need to build a really great product, right if there are already
existing products on the market and yours isn't
At least as good on a product side of things
um
It's not going to not going to grow usually
It's less design heavy because you have precedent you can go find that
comparable product
Take the screenshots put it in figma and um
There's less innovation required if you're just competing with already existing
companies
This is kind of like the idea of like second movers advantage
I do not recommend being a copycat
And there are a lot of reasons for that that will likely touch on in the future
but um
If you are going to be competing with incumbents
Your development does have to be on point and then of course distribution has
to be on point because
People probably already know about the existing product
um
And so you have to figure out how to kind of out distribute them
Um finish up on the story about the college marketplace app and rich gpt
Uh, you know wrong subset of skills
uh wrong product idea
This I think genuinely just shows the power of working on the right idea and
properly determining expectations
Uh and and resources constraints timeline outcome these these sort of questions
are so incredibly important
I cannot emphasize them enough. You might be like, this is bullshit. I can't
believe I paid for this course
He's just talking about idea for his execution, but it's so real. It's so
important. I spent over a year of my life
Working on the wrong thing because I did not really understand
all of what I just spoke about
And then I changed and I hit 80k MRR in three fucking days
Please, please please whatever you do
Take this message to heart take this unit to heart
This is the the very foundation
Of uh the framework that you should use when determining what idea is to work
on
All right in the next section we're going to get into human psychology
And how to actually begin
Identifying the ideas with which you can apply these frameworks to
Peace out
So
[BLANK_AUDIO]